---
toc: true
comments: true
layout: post
categories: [markdown]
title: 5.1 and 5.2
permalink: /fives
---

# Think of three beneficial effects of your projects based on 5.1 Unit

1. **Developing problem-solving skills:** Building a website that features a card matching game and a leaderboard requires me to think through the logic and mechanics of the game, as well as the technical (and confusing) aspects of using API and database to store and display high scores. This can help me develop problem-solving skills that will be useful for solving future problems.

2. **Gaining experience with web development:** Building a website is a great way for me to gain experience with programming languages such as HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. This experience can be useful in future projects and maybe even careers.

3. **Learning about APIs and databases:** Incorporating an API and database into the website allows me to learn about how these Computer Science items work and how they can be used to store and retrieve data. This can help me understand API and Databases better.

Think of a potential harmful effect of your project.
# Think of a potential harmful effect of your project.

The pressure to complete the project by a deadline can cause stress and anxiety for the me, especially since understanding backend material is very difficult. This can lead to burnout and sometimes even negatively impact my mental well-being. Also, If I'm is dedicating a significant amount of time to working on one project, it can limit the amount of time I have for other classes.

# Answer with an opinion and learnings so far this year:  What are pros/cons on internet blockers at router and lack of admin password on lab machines at school?

While blocking certain websites can help to prevent access to inappropriate or potentially harmful content (misinformation, not credible material, etc), it can can limit access to useful educational resources or information. There are some VERY helpful websites that students cannot access. Some of these websites contain information that can help students with efficiently managing their time and avoid browsing time-consuming and inefficient websites. Overall, I would say that these blockers have more cons than pros. As for admin password settings, I would say that lack of admin password can make it difficult for students to install necessary software or make personal adjustments to the machines.

# What concerns do you have personally about the digital divide?  For yourself or for others.

Regarding the digital divide and similar phenomena, one thing that keeps me up some nights is the fact there might be some very brilliant minds who do not have access to appropriate/effective materials such as laptops, access to the internet, and other technologies. Del Norte students do not have such problems. However, it is still quite upsetting and even heart-breaking that as human beings, we are unable to benefit from the talents of some brilliant minds.